---
layout: post
title: basics of Git
tags: git
---

Pro Git written by Scott Chacon & Ben Straub

## adding identification

```
$ git config --global user.name "[name]"
$ git config --global user.email "email@email.com"
```

## default editor
### using Sublime Text as your editor

Before configuring Sublime Text as the default editor, you should first create a symbolic link to use at the command line issue the following command at the terminal:
```
$ ln -s  "/Applications/Sublime Text.app/Contents/SharedSupport/bin/subl" /usr/local/bin/subl
```
and then
```
$ git config --global core.editor "subl -n -w"
```

### using Atom as your editor
```
$ git config --global core.editor "atom --wait"
```

### using TextMate as your editor
```
$ git config --global core.editor "mate -w"
```


## checking your settings
```
$ git config --list
```

## getting help
```
$ git help <verb>
$ git <verb> --help
$ man git-<verb>”
```

## creating repositories

Start a new repository or obtain one from an existing URL

Creates a new local repository with the specified name
```
$ git init [project-name]
```

Downloads a project and its entire version history
```
$ git clone [url]
```

## recording changes to the repository

Check the status of the repository
```
$ cd [repository-directory]
$ git status
```

### tracking new files
```
$ git add [file-name]
```
The `[file-name]` can also be a `[directory-name]`, such that all the files under the directory are added for tracking recursively.

### staging modified files
If you modify a file after you run `git add`, you have to run `git add` again to stage the latest version of the file:
```
$ git add [file-name]
$ git status
```

> short status
```
$ git status -s
```
or
```
$ git status --short
```
New files that aren’t tracked have a `??` next to them, 
new files that have been added to the staging area have an `A`, 
modified files have an `M` and so on. 

### ignoring files

Often, you’ll have a class of files that you don’t want Git to automatically add or even show you as being untracked. These are generally automatically generated files such as log files or files produced by your build system. In such cases, you can create a file listing patterns to match them named `.gitignore`. Here is an example `.gitignore` file:
```
$ cat .gitignore
*.[oa]
*~
```
The first line tells Git to ignore any files ending in “.o” or “.a” – object and archive files that may be the product of building your code. The second line tells Git to ignore all files that end with a tilde (~), which is used by many text editors such as Emacs to mark temporary files.

The rules for the patterns you can put in the .gitignore file are as follows:
- Blank lines or lines starting with # are ignored.
- Standard glob patterns work.
- You can start patterns with a forward slash (/) to avoid recursivity.
- You can end patterns with a forward slash (/) to specify a directory.
- You can negate a pattern by starting it with an exclamation point (!).

Glob patterns are like simplified regular expressions that shells use. An asterisk `*` matches zero or more characters; `[abc]` matches any character inside the brackets; a question mark `?` matches a single character; and brackets enclosing characters separated by a hyphen(`[0-9]`) matches any character between them (in this case 0 through 9). You can also use two asterisks to match nested directories; `a/**/z` would match `a/z`, `a/b/z`, `a/b/c/z`, and so on.

Here is another example .gitignore file:
```
# no .a files
*.a

# but do track lib.a, even though you're ignoring .a files above
!lib.a

# only ignore the TODO file in the current directory, not subdir/TODO
/TODO

# ignore all files in the build/ directory
build/

# ignore doc/notes.txt, but not doc/server/arch.txt
doc/*.txt

# ignore all .pdf files in the doc/ directory
doc/**/*.pdf
```

You can also get access to other examples at https://github.com/github/gitignore/.

## viewing your staged and unstaged changes

To see what you’ve changed but not yet staged, type `git diff` with no other arguments:
```
$ git diff
```
That command compares what is in your working directory with what is in your staging area. The result tells you the changes you’ve made that you haven’t yet staged.

If you want to see what you’ve staged that will go into your next commit, you can use `git diff --staged`. This command compares your staged changes to your last commit:
```
$ git diff --staged
```

## committing your changes

```
$ git commit
```

For an even more explicit reminder of what you’ve modified, you can pass the `-v` option to `git commit`. Doing so also puts the diff of your change in the editor so you can see exactly what changes you’re committing.

Alternatively, you can type your commit message inline with the commit command by specifying it after a `-m` flag, like this:
```
$ git commit -m "Story 182: Fix benchmarks for speed
```

> skipping the staging area
Adding the `-a` option to the git commit command makes Git automatically stage every file that is already tracked before doing the commit, letting you skip the git add part:
```
$ git commit -a -m 'added new benchmarks'
```

## removing files
If you run `git rm`, it stages the file’s removal:
```
$ git rm [file-name]
```

Another useful thing you may want to do is to keep the file in your working tree but remove it from your staging area. In other words, you may want to keep the file on your hard drive but not have Git track it anymore. This is particularly useful if you forgot to add something to your `.gitignore` file and accidentally staged it, like a large log file or a bunch of `.a` compiled files. To do this, use the `--cached` option:
```
$ git rm --cached [file-name]
```

You can pass files, directories, and file-glob patterns to the `git rm` command. That means you can do things such as:
```
$ git rm log/\*.log
```
Note the backslash (`\`) in front of the `*`. This is necessary because Git does its own filename expansion in addition to your shell’s filename expansion. This command removes all files that have the `.log` extension in the `log/` directory. Or, you can do something like this:
```
$ git rm \*~
```
This command removes all files that end with `~`.

## moving files
If you want to rename a file in Git, you can run something like:
```
$ git mv file_from file_to
```

## viewing the commit history

```
$ git log
```
By default, with no arguments, `git log` lists the commits made in that repository in reverse chronological order – that is, the most recent commits show up first. As you can see, this command lists each commit with its SHA-1 checksum, the author’s name and email, the date written, and the commit message.

One of the more helpful options is `-p`, which shows the difference introduced in each commit. You can also use `-2`, which limits the output to only the last two entries:
```
$ git log -p -2
```

If you want to see some abbreviated stats for each commit, you can use the `--stat` option:
```
$ git log --stat
```

Another really useful option is `--pretty`. This option changes the log output to formats other than the default. A few prebuilt options are available for you to use. The `oneline` option prints each commit on a single line, which is useful if you’re looking at a lot of commits. In addition, the `short`, `full`, and `fuller` options show the output in roughly the same format but with less or more information, respectively:
```
$ git log --pretty=oneline
```

The most interesting option is `format`, which allows you to specify your own log output format. This is especially useful when you’re generating output for machine parsing – because you specify the format explicitly, you know it won’t change with updates to Git:
```
$ git log --pretty=format:"%h - %an, %ar : %s"
ca82a6d - Scott Chacon, 6 years ago : changed the version number
085bb3b - Scott Chacon, 6 years ago : removed unnecessary test
a11bef0 - Scott Chacon, 6 years ago : first commit
```

useful options for `git log --pretty=format`

Option | Description of Output
-|-
%H | Commit hash
%h | Abbreviated commit hash
%T | Tree hash
%t | Abbreviated tree hash
%P | Parent hashes
%p | Abbreviated parent hashes
%an | Author name
%ae | Author email
%ad | Author date (format respects the --date=option)
%ar | Author date, relative
%cn | Committer name
%ce | Committer email
%cd | Committer date
%cr | Committer date, relative
%s | Subject


## undoing things

One of the common undos takes place when you commit too early and possibly forget to add some files, or you mess up your commit message. If you want to try that commit again, you can run commit with the `--amend` option:
```
$ git commit --amend
```
This command takes your staging area and uses it for the commit. If you’ve made no changes since your last commit (for instance, you run this command immediately after your previous commit), then your snapshot will look exactly the same, and all you’ll change is your commit message.

## unmodifying a modified file
```
$ git checkout --[file-name]
$ git status
```


# working with remotes

## showing your remotes
To see which remote servers you have configured, you can run the `git remote` command. It lists the shortnames of each remote handle you’ve specified.

You can also specify `-v`, which shows you the URLs that Git has stored for the shortname to be used when reading and writing to that remote:
```
$ git remote -v
```

If you have more than one remote, the command lists them all.

## adding remote repositories

To add a new remote Git repository as a shortname you can reference easily, run `git remote add [shortname] [url]`:
```
$ git remote
$ git remote add [roy] https://github.com/paulboone/ticgit
$ git remote -v

$ git fetch roy
```

## fetching and pushing from your remotes

As you just saw, to get data from your remote projects, you can run:
```
$ git fetch [remote-name]
```

If you clone a repository, the command automatically adds that remote repository under the name “origin”. So, `git fetch origin` fetches any new work that has been pushed to that server since you cloned (or last fetched from) it. It’s important to note that the git fetch command pulls the data to your local repository – it doesn’t automatically merge it with any of your work or modify what you’re currently working on. You have to merge it manually into your work when you’re ready.

If you have a branch set up to track a remote branch, you can use the `git pull` command to automatically fetch and then merge a remote branch into your current branch. This may be an easier or more comfortable workflow for you; and by default, the `git clone` command automatically sets up your local master branch to track the remote master branch (or whatever the default branch is called) on the server you cloned from. Running `git pull` generally fetches data from the server you originally cloned from and automatically tries to merge it into the code you’re currently working on.

## pushing to your remotes

When you have your project at a point that you want to share, you have to push it upstream. The command for this is simple: `git push [remote-name] [branch-name]`. If you want to push your master branch to your origin server (again, cloning generally sets up both of those names for you automatically), then you can run this to push any commits you’ve done back up to the server:
```
$ git push origin master
```
This command works only if you cloned from a server to which you have write access and if nobody has pushed in the meantime. If you and someone else clone at the same time and they push upstream and then you push upstream, your push will rightly be rejected. You’ll have to pull down their work first and incorporate it into yours before you’ll be allowed to push.

## inspecting a remote

If you want to see more information about a particular remote, you can use the `git remote show [remote-name]` command.
```
$ git remote show origin
```


