---
layout: post
title: LaTeX with Sublime Text 3 on Mac
tags: LaTex Mac
---

[Sublime Text 3](https://www.sublimetext.com/3) is a great App for text editing as well as some more coding-related tasks.

LaTeX with Sublime Text 3 makes the compiling process really easy to realize. Following is the step by step way for the environmental build-up.

1. install Sublime Text 3, after that, install **Package Control**;
1. install the [**BasicTeX.pkg**](http://www.tug.org/mactex/morepackages.html) package;
1. in Sublime Text 3, the most frequently-used keyboard shortcut is ```Command+Shift+P```, and then input ```Install```, find ```LaTexTools```. The software will automatically download the package and then finish the installment.
1. typically, people tend to use [**Skim**](https://skim-app.sourceforge.io/) for pdf preview. However, for me, I'm more used to using ```Preview```. So, I'll find the settings in Sublime Text 3 through ```Sublime Text```-->```Preferences```-->```Package Settings```-->```LaTeXTools```-->```Settings--User```. Find a line starting with ```// Viewer settings```, and set the viewer through ```"viewer": "preview",```. Then the preview.app will be used for pdf reading.
1. after all those, the enviroment setting has been finished. Using ```Command+N``` to open a new file, then ```command+shift+p```, input ```ssl``` or ```set syntax latex``` for format choosing. Save the file will automatically add ```.tex``` to the file name.


** Misc 
1. Add ```%!TEX program = xelatex``` on the start of the LaTeX file will enforce the xelatex builder to be chosen.
1. Add ```%!TEX root = ../main.tex``` to the top of the LaTeX file is helpful when you are working on a big project. This way, you don't need to return back to the main file for compiling. ```command+B``` works anywhere.
1. For me, I always use ```pgfplot``` or such packages for figure generation, as a result,  under the ```"builder_settings" : {```, I would use ```"options": ["--shell-escape"],``` for convenient builder choosing.

That's all I can recall now.